README.md, before:

# Lint `extra-deps`

Maintaining `extra-deps` in a `stack.yaml` (or `packages` in a `snapshot.yaml`)
is a pain. If an extra dep has been moved into your resolver, you should remove
it. If your extra dep has a new version on Hackage, you may want to update it.
If you have a `git` dependency, you may want to know if that change is now
available in a versioned release on Hackage.

All of these are manual, annoying, and error prone to check by hand.

![](./files/example.png)

## Install

Get the Download URL for the latest release,

```sh
url=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps/releases/latest |
  jq '.assets[].browser_download_url | select(.|test("x86_64-linux.tar.gz$"))' --raw-output)
```

(You can also just browse [Releases][].)

[releases]: https://github.com/freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps/releases

```console
% curl -L "$url" | tar xzf - &&
  mv stack-lint-extra-deps/stack-lint-extra-deps ~/.local/bin &&
  rmdir stack-lint-extra-deps
% which stack-lint-extra-deps
~/.local/bin/stack-lint-extra-deps
```

## Usage

```console
% stack lint-extra-deps --help
Usage: stack-lint-extra-deps [-p|--path PATH] [-r|--resolver RESOLVER]
                             [--exclude PATTERN] [--checks CHECKS]
                             [-n|--no-exit] [PATTERN]

  Lint Stackage (extra) Deps

Available options:
  -p,--path PATH           Path to config to lint (default: "stack.yaml")
  -r,--resolver RESOLVER   Resolver to use, default is read from --path
  --exclude PATTERN        Exclude deps matching PATTERN
  --checks CHECKS          Checks to run, one of: all, git, hackage
                           (default: all)
  -n,--no-exit             Exit successfully, even if suggestions found
  PATTERN                  Limit to deps matching PATTERN
  -h,--help                Show this help text
```

Our output uses [Blammo][] and so [any of the `LOG_` environment
variables][blammo-config] it supports may be used to control it, such as
`LOG_COLOR`.

[blammo]: https:/github.com/freckle/blammo#readme
[blammo-config]: https://github.com/freckle/blammo#configuration

## GitHub Action

This repository is also a GitHub Action that installs and runs the tool with no
arguments (so with all defaults according to above). The `version` and
`arguments` can be adjusted through inputs:

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4
  - uses: freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps@v1
    with:
      version: 1.0.1.6
      arguments: >-
        --path stack-x.yaml
        --exclude 'amazonka-*'
        --checks hackage
        --no-exit
```

![](./files/action.png)

## Features

- [x] Suggest update when there is a newer version of a Hackage dep available
- [x] Suggest removal when a Hackage dep is in the resolver at a same-or-newer
      version
- [x] Suggest update when there are newer commits in a git dep
- [x] Suggest replacement when there is a Hackage version of a git dep at a
      same-or-newer version
- [ ] Apply custom rules
- [ ] Suggest when newer resolver is available
- [ ] Auto-fix

---

[LICENSE](./LICENSE) | [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)

Commit message:

Update action details in README

README.md, after:

# Lint `extra-deps`

Maintaining `extra-deps` in a `stack.yaml` (or `packages` in a `snapshot.yaml`)
is a pain. If an extra dep has been moved into your resolver, you should remove
it. If your extra dep has a new version on Hackage, you may want to update it.
If you have a `git` dependency, you may want to know if that change is now
available in a versioned release on Hackage.

All of these are manual, annoying, and error prone to check by hand.

![](./files/example.png)

## Install

Get the Download URL for the latest release,

```sh
url=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps/releases/latest |
  jq '.assets[].browser_download_url | select(.|test("x86_64-linux.tar.gz$"))' --raw-output)
```

(You can also just browse [Releases][].)

[releases]: https://github.com/freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps/releases

```console
% curl -L "$url" | tar xzf - &&
  mv stack-lint-extra-deps/stack-lint-extra-deps ~/.local/bin &&
  rmdir stack-lint-extra-deps
% which stack-lint-extra-deps
~/.local/bin/stack-lint-extra-deps
```

## Usage

```console
% stack lint-extra-deps --help
Usage: stack-lint-extra-deps [-p|--path PATH] [-r|--resolver RESOLVER]
                             [--exclude PATTERN] [--checks CHECKS]
                             [-n|--no-exit] [PATTERN]

  Lint Stackage (extra) Deps

Available options:
  -p,--path PATH           Path to config to lint (default: "stack.yaml")
  -r,--resolver RESOLVER   Resolver to use, default is read from --path
  --exclude PATTERN        Exclude deps matching PATTERN
  --checks CHECKS          Checks to run, one of: all, git, hackage
                           (default: all)
  -n,--no-exit             Exit successfully, even if suggestions found
  PATTERN                  Limit to deps matching PATTERN
  -h,--help                Show this help text
```

Our output uses [Blammo][] and so [any of the `LOG_` environment
variables][blammo-config] it supports may be used to control it, such as
`LOG_COLOR`.

[blammo]: https:/github.com/freckle/blammo#readme
[blammo-config]: https://github.com/freckle/blammo#configuration

## GitHub Action

This repository is also a GitHub Action that installs and runs the tool with no
arguments (so with all defaults according to above). The `version` and
`arguments` can be adjusted through inputs:

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4
  - uses: freckle/stack-lint-extra-deps@v1
    with:
      version: 1.0.1.6
      arguments: >-
        --path stack-x.yaml
        --exclude 'amazonka-*'
        --checks hackage
        --no-exit
```

![](./files/action.png)

### Action Version

Version branches (e.g. `@v1`) are unrelated to the tool's version itself (and
corresponding tags). They are maintained based on changes made only to the
action itself.

### Annotations

Since `v1.2` (of the executable, not the action), `--format gha` is available
and will result in output that produces annotations in your workflow summary.

![](./files/annotations.png)

In the future, this may become part of the default `arguments`, but for now you
are expected to add it yourself if desired.

## Features

- [x] Suggest update when there is a newer version of a Hackage dep available
- [x] Suggest removal when a Hackage dep is in the resolver at a same-or-newer
      version
- [x] Suggest update when there are newer commits in a git dep
- [x] Suggest replacement when there is a Hackage version of a git dep at a
      same-or-newer version
- [ ] Apply custom rules
- [ ] Suggest when newer resolver is available
- [ ] Auto-fix

---

[LICENSE](./LICENSE) | [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)
